Railing planters are great way to add some greenery to your small balcony.
So we're going to update this basic and inexpensive planter that we found a Home Hardware and give it a bit of a rustic touch.
So we're going to be applying a layer of stucco to it but because the plastic's rather smooth,
we're going to start by roughing up the surface with a bit of sandpaper.
So we're ready to apply the stucco layer.
This is exterior stucco so it's nice and weather resistant,
and what you'll want to do is go really thick and just slap it on because we want kind of a rough, organic look to it.
So I'm just kind of using the palette knife here to spread it out evenly before I give it a bit more texture.
You don't want to forget the lip all around the edge but you will want to avoid the bottom of the planter because it will be sitting on your railing.
I get right in there and put it on thick.
And you'll want to put a little bit more on the inside ridge of the lip because your soil's not going to go all the way to the top.
So go about 1" to 2" in.
Just think of this as decorating a really big, misshapen cake, smooth it out.
The stucco surface takes about 4-6 hrs to dry.
Now you could leave it on this kind of plastery, paper mache finish,
or you could paint it and add any finish you like.
We've decided to give it that kind of cement look perfect for the city,
so we're going to add a coat of pale grey paint.
We've chosen Beauti-Tone Exterior Paint in "Vogue".
We're going to be applying a couple of coats, nice and even, to get that pale grey cement look.
You could paint it any colour you like:
something maybe to match your exterior or something to make your flowers pop,
just don't be shy.
So we're just going to let this last coat of paint dry.
We'll be able to bring it outside, fill it with flowers, and we can enjoy this all summer long.